Data, Fred, data! Ignore the jerk; just integrate this information: he was easily distracted. "I am studying. What do you think of it?"
Lodgesen smiled warmly, the first time he'd reacted pleasantly around Fred. "I think we're all of the same opinion. This discovery will rock 'em up back home."
"And you, Beth?"
Beth Rosen, their data coordinator, Huh?ed, and gave Fred her attention grudgingly. "My opinion? It's ... it's like coming home, Fred. Why do you ask?"
Of them all, Beth was the only one who was curious about Fred's activities. "No important reason," he was suddenly aware of a bead of sweat on his forehead as he looked at the screen. Home? More like the poorhouse. But he continued to lie, "Just doing a little survey." He wandered away, thoughts in turmoil.
He must be careful of Beth. He'd learned very fast to respect her on both professional and interpersonal grounds. The gal had a mind like a steel trap; she had a body that caused males—adolescents to elders—to fantasy, and females—of any age—to envy. Beth, as data coordinator, had a role on the ground similar to Charlesworth's in space. Although the data coordinator rarely went to extremes, she or he was fed all information the expedition collected, had ultimate power for decision and responsibility.
And how was Fred to give her this information? Add it up—but it wouldn't add. JoAnn Chase, semantics, deeply taken with the planet; Beth Rosen, data coordinator, in a state of lassitude but not as strongly influenced as Jo; John Charlesworth, captain, highly enthusiastic; Richard Lodgesen, chemistry-physics, showing more joyous emotion than the cold fish could possibly be expected to; and Fred Kirr, anthropology, who tended as far toward dislike as Beth did like, possibly as far as Jo.
Item: no one acted abnormal.
Item: on the basis of very bad statistical sampling, it seemed the women were reacting far more than the men to this particular encounter.
Item: you, Fred Kirr, are the only one to have an anti-reaction. Are you insane? No, you've always been this way. In school, the times you got good grades were when you were sure you'd flunked. Or, take your Tanganyika discovery in 1965: a complete skeleton of the Dryopithecinae, showing anthropoid differentiation by late Miocene. The scientific world hailed this as strong evidence that, in Life's words, "the evolution of that primate called 'man' began fantastically farther back than we'd ever before dreamed." Your reaction was discouragement; there was too much conclusion jumping; nothing at all had been proved.
Come to think of it, all 28 of your years have been spent with reverse reaction. And now you have a situation that must soon be resolved.
Fred shook his head. The change in the others seemed so sudden. It was only a few hours ago that the ship had come out of hyper.
He'd been watching the newly visible star system wondering, Will you be the one? Somewhere in your depths, is there the key to our mystery?
"Hi, Gloomy Gus!" JoAnn joined him, excited pleasure bubbling from her.
"Gloomy—"
"All right, you weren't being gloomy, just concentrating. You're still known to the rest of us as Gloomy Gus...." She giggled.
"I was thinking about intelligent life," Fred said.
"I'll bet," the girl added, "you were thinking I wouldn't have a job because, as usual, we won't find